---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 2 - Flashback to Move Forward"
date: 2019-01-26
description: In this one-shot, you recalled how you first met in the dungeons of the Blood Baron and embarked on your first adventure together.
category: story
tags: main-story
---

Dash, Gnash, Andanna, Q'ea, and Belinda, you recalled how you first met: you each came into possession of a "treasure map" that lead straight to the crypt of the Blood Baron. You sought this treasure, but found only a prison cell. And that's where you met: locked in the Baron's dungeons.

After a time, The Blood Baron summoned you and explained that these maps were fakes, designed to lure would-be adventurer's into his lair where they might slay his employees and minions, weakening his influence and perhaps even killing the Baron himself! This would not do. The Baron was so enraged by these shenanigans that he was willing to forgive your transgressions and spare your lives in exchange for more information concerning the provenance of these sinister maps and the location of their creators.

You accepted the quest (you had no choice), and your investigation pointed you to a cult of vampires known as the Undertakers. [Durnan][durnan], the proprietor of the Yawning Portal, told you to seek an entrance into the Undertaker hideout through Stonebone mine, an abandoned Dwarven mine in the wilderness outside Waterdeep. He also asked that you keep an eye out for a druid named Bluetooth and a special blue lichen said to make a great flavoring agent for ale.

You set out towards the woods and soon found Bluetooth, who led you to the mine. You fought your way past enchanted skeletons and found yourself in a maze of tunnels. You found a "bone garden" and Dash welcomed a Dwarven ghost named Rheizzlerum—"Rizz" for short—into his mind. She led the party deeper into the mine to the site of an abandoned Dwarven town deep underground. It was here you finally found evidence of the Undertakers in the form of poorly-written vampire fan-fiction.

And then you found the author of this fan-fiction, a vampiric sorcerer accompanied by an enchanted pile of Dwarven bones. They appeared to be excavating an old Dwarven tunnel. You handily dispatched the both of them and papers concealed on the sorcerer's corpse confirmed the Undertaker's plot to undermine the Baron. The papers further revealed the Undertakers' plans to create a rear entrance to their lair through Stonebone mine. This is apparently what the sorcerer and golem were working on when you happened upon them.

You returned to Waterdeep with a sustainable source of blue lichen for Durnan and enough information for The Blood Baron that he deigned to forgive you.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 1][chapter-1] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 3 &rarr;][chapter-3]

## Rewards

**The Bloody Baron forgives you** - You earned the Baron's trust by gathering information about the Undertakers, and so has absolved you of your life debt (how generous of him). He now believes that the Undertaker lair lies just beyond the blocked tunnel you discovered. He sees an opportunity to clear the tunnel and mount a decisive surprise attack... He invites you to join him in the effort.

**Gold Reimbursement** - [Mirt the Moneylender][mirt-the-moneylender] can hook you up with at-cost buyers for the silver and magical weapons you picked up. You may lose any such weapons and recover ALL the gold you spent on them (I don't mind if you keep them, but know that the magic weapons in particular are probably not technically legal for other Adventurer's League sessions).

**4 Advancement Checkpoints (abbrev: ACP)** - One for each of the primary story objectives: (1) locating the tunnel being excavated to the Undertaker's lair, and (2) destroying the Bone Golem. And one for each of the bonus objectives: (1) soothing the spirits of the mine and (2) securing a source of blue lichen for Durnan.

**4 Tier 2 Treasure Checkpoints (abbrev: TCP)** - Same rules as ACP.

**10 Downtime Days** - Five days for every two ACP.

**1 Renown** - One for every four ACP

**Unlocked the Mace of Smiting (cost: 20 Tier 2 Treasure Checkpoints)** - The head of the mace features an angry Dwarven face. The spector of Reizzlerum "Rizz" Caskview still maintains a connection to the weapon, causing the owner to gain an unending thirst for ale.

>You get a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The bonus increases to +3 when you use the mace to attack a construct (a construct is a magically animated creature like the Golem you faced).
>
>When you roll a 20 on an Attack roll made with this weapon, the target takes an extra 7 bludgeoning damage, or an extra 14 bludgeoning damage if it's a construct. If a construct has 25 Hit Points or fewer after taking this damage, it is destroyed.

**Endless "Bluetooth Ale"** - As thanks for providing him with a renewable source of blue lichen for his debut microbrew, Durnan will serve you all you can drink! The blue lichen's poisonous properties are neutralized during fermentation, but it will still turn your bones blue on a failed constitution save, an effect which lasts for 24 hours.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 1][chapter-1] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 3 &rarr;][chapter-3]


[chapter-1]: {% post_url story/2019-01-12-chapter-1 %}
[chapter-3]: {% post_url story/2019-02-10-chapter-3 %}

[durnan]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-durnan %}
[mirt-the-moneylender]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-mirt-the-moneylender %}
