---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 9 - This Man is Your Father"
date: 2019-07-28
description: You finally learn what the Cassalanters want with the Stone of Golorr. Andanna's past becomes present again. And there's a twist with Banana Swirl...
category: story
tags: main-story
---

A lot happened this time, so for now, it's just a bullet-list summary!

 - A man picked up the Stone of Golorr after you chased imps and gargoyles across the rooftops
 - You learned that the man was named Willifort, a valet for the Cassalanters
 - Willifort was surrounded by guards. He wore one of Dash's sashes and the Cassalanter crest. He tucked away the stone and climbed into a carriage
 - Half the party followed the carriage to the Cassalanter manor and scouted it out
 - The other half of the party returned to the Tavern
 - On the way to the tavern, Dab was shot in the shoulder with an arrow. On it was a note scrawled by Urstul: "i told you i'd get out. i have my eye on you"
 - At the tavern, Vaelle appeared, covered in blood
 - Vaelle told you:
   - Her cult mentor, Seffia, said "terrible things" and then tried to kill her
   - But Vaelle managed to kill Seffia in self-defense
   - Seffia had told Vaelle that the Cassalanters plan to sacrifice people in exchange for the souls of their children
   - Per their contract with the demon Asmodeus, the Cassalanters need one shy of 100 souls and one shy of 1 million gold coins
   - When she was initiated to the cult, she was taken to a temple. She was blindfolded, but she remembers a boat and waves crashing on rocks
 - Then some of you went and swapped info with Vincent Trench, private eye:
   - He told you the Cassalanters are holding a big party on Founder's Day
   - He told you that you need three "keys" plus the Stone of Golorr to open the Vault of Dragons (where the 500k gold treasure is held)
   - He told you that one of the keys you need is a unicorn
 - Farideh visited the library of The Order of the Gauntlet
   - She learned about the history of demon cults and of Asmodeus
   - She learned that flames of a white dragon are used to purge demons
   - She found a logbook showing a wood elf community that had been destroyed by The Order because of demonic corruption
 - Based on what Vaelle told you, you guessed that the entrance to their demonic temple was somewhere on the cliffside below their manor house.
   - You rented a decent schooner in dock ward and sailed out of the harbor, laying anchor near the cliffs beneath Cassalanter manor.
   - You proceeded nearer the cliffs in a dinghy and managed to find a well-hidden cave entrance
   - You fought your way through some guards and proceeded up spiral staircases
 - You discovered a magical chemistry room with some demonic guards and a mysterious chemist
   - You started out all stealthy, but then you literally threw the body of one of the ealier guards (now unconscious and mostly unclothed) into the middle of the room. There will probably be no consequences for this, but really? Really!?
   - Your, uh, distraction was distracting I guess.
   - You attacked!
 - In the middle of combat, Andanna got a good look at the chemist and recognized him... as her father!
   - She called off the attack and you talked to him
   - Andanna's father also recognized her. Wracked with emotion and guilt, he expressed his regret.
   - With a snap, he vaporized the two demonic guards and cast about for some other gestures of redemption, though he knew it was already too late for him
   - Andanna's father then said he sensed a "celestial" amongst you and freed Banana Swirl from the swirly curse placed on him by demons.
   - Banana Swirl stretched angelic wings and thanked you all mightily for the kindness you showed him in his helplessness
   - Banana Swirl gave you all free smoothies, but some of you dropped them
   - Banana Swirl also freed the ghost of Rheizzlrum "Rizz" from Dash's head
   - Banana Swirl then returned to the celestial plane, promising to return to you in your hour of need, as you had helped him in his
 - You spoke to Andanna's father and he told you:
   - His soul and Andanna's mother's soul are lost to Asmodeus. He chose to serve the demon rather than be tortured, Andanna's mother chose torture.
   - Hand-shaped blemishes on his body showed the "hands of demons" upon him
   - He was here to serve the Cassalanters
   - He was preparing a deadly poison, "Midnight Tears." Whoever drinks the poision will die at the next stroke of midnight.
   - Two Cassalanter souls are necessary to break the curse, but they don't have to be the children's souls...
 - Andanna's father was then "pulled away" by the demon hands. He was slowly and torturously dragged into the ground until he vanished

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 8][chapter-8] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 10 &rarr;][chapter-10]

## Rewards

*2500 XP Each* - Everyone should now have 24,000 total experience points. At 34,000 XP, you will reach level 8!

*10 Downtime Days*

*Lose 50 Gold* - The Ghost and Dragon lost some money...

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 8][chapter-8] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 10 &rarr;][chapter-10]

[chapter-8]: {% post_url story/2019-06-08-chapter-8 %}
[chapter-10]: {% post_url story/2019-09-04-chapter-10 %}