---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 3 - Sewer Romp"
date: 2019-02-10
description: The one where you venture into the sewers to rescue Floon and encounter a surprising and terrifying foe.
category: story
tags: main-story
---

Dusting himself off, [Renaer][renaer-neverember] told you that [Floon][floon] was taken elsewhere by agents of [The Xanathar Guild][xanathar-guild]. He confirmed that, yes, he was with Floon on the night he disappeared. In fact, they were just leaving a bar together when they were set upon and kidnapped by [Zhentarim][zhentarim] agents! The Zhents took them to the warehouse, but then the Xanathar guild attacked. In the confusion, Renaer managed to hide in a closet, while the Xanths dragged Floon away.

Renaer could only speculate about his kidnapper's motivations, but he explained that it is well known throughout Waterdeep that his father hid a huge treasure—500,000 gold "dragons"—somewhere in the city. He said wouldn't be surprised if shady factions like the Zhents and Xanths were after it... but he swears up and down that he hasn't the first clue where to find the gold. He said that he hates his father and he hates that the gold was taken from the common people. He wants nothing to do with it.

Even so, he thinks the thugs aimed to to torture him in an attempt to extract knowledge that he doesn't have. Poor, innocent Floon was just a bystander in this mess. He implored you to find Floon as quickly as possible and to send word via paper bird.

Renaer left you then, and Andanna instructed her wolf to track Floon's scent. You wound through narrowing alleyways until you located the entrance to a Xanathar hideout in the sewers. Q'ea passed out scented posy pouches to squelch the stench of sewage. One hour in, you happened upon Belinda, foraging for a special moss.

Belinda greeted you loudly, attracting the hideout sentinal, Iph the Spectator. You managed to talk your way past him, only to be ambushed by a band of mercenary hobgoblins. Dash and Farideh subdued the Hobgoblins with a mix of thunder and intimidation. You interrogated them, and they confirmed that Floon was nearby. Shortly thereafter, you located Floon...

Floon lay nearly unconscious on the floor in the shadow of an orc sorceror whose mind was being extracted by an ambulatory brain creature. Bursting into the room, you spotted the brain creature's master: a Mind Flayer, accompanied by two more brain-pets. Apparently this thing was the sorcerer's boss, and he was _not_ pleased.

Chaos ensued as you scooped up Floon and attempted to carry him to safety. The Mind Flayer disappeared into an interdimensional vortex. The orc sorcerer set himself on fire and passed out. Gnash searched in vain for alternative exit. Dash stumbled on some bandits struggling against a gray ooze in the lavatory and befuddled them with his charisma. In the end, the whole party high-tailed it to the exit, sweet-talked Iph a second time, and managed to exit the sewers intact.

You reunited with [Volo][volo-geddarm] and Renaer a day later, and there was much rejoicing... but also a catch. Volo revealed that he didn't actually have the cash he promised you. He said his royalties for _Volo's Guide to Monsters_ were all tied up in some obscure Trade's Guild dispute. He did offer an interesting alternative, though: he would transfer the deed (and, uh, debt) to his recently-acquired manor house in [Trollskull Alley][trollskull-alley] where he was studying a poltergeist (did I mention the place is also haunted? It is.). You accepted his deal and Volo said he would make arrangements with the magistrate at once.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 2][chapter-2] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 4 &rarr;][chapter-4]

## Rewards

We agreed to leave behind the Adventurer's League rules in favor of more customization. From now on, we'll look at advancement in the form of Experience Points (XP). <a href="https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Character%20Advancement#content" target="_blank">Here's a chart of how XP corresponds to levels</a>

As 5th level characters, you reached level five at 6,500 XP. Let's start there and add future XP on top of that:

**2500 XP** - For various accomplishments: locating the hideout, peacefully resolving some conflicts, and rescuing Floon.

**50 Gold Pieces** - A disappointing sum to be sure. Renaer did plop down a solid chunk of change in gratitude, but the Xanth hideout was rather barren and Volo didn't deliver on his promised gold.

**21 Downtime Days** - You get one day for each real day between sessions

**No more magic item unlocks.** I will introduce magic items in the story or, as fate may have it, during your downtime days.

**Trollskull Manor** - Volo offered to transfer ownership of the manor house to you. As part of the deal, you agree to take on a 3500 gold piece debt to Mirt the Moneylender, who supplied the mortgage (the regular payment is just  60GP / month). He would also like a room in the house for the foreseeable future, so he can continue studying the resident poltergeist.

The manor house was previously a tavern and inn and with some investment might be restored to its former glory.

Please let me know who plans to sign the deed and assume ownership and what plans you might have for the establishment.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 2][chapter-2] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 4 &rarr;][chapter-4]

[chapter-2]: {% post_url story/2019-01-26-chapter-2 %}
[chapter-4]: {% post_url story/2019-03-09-chapter-4 %}

[renaer-neverember]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-renaer-neverember %}
[floon]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-floon %}
[trollskull-alley]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-trollskull-alley %}
[volo-geddarm]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-volo-geddarm %}
[xanathar-guild]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-xanathar-guild %}
[zhentarim]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-zhentarim %}
