---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 5 - An Explosive Investigation"
date: 2019-03-24
description: You had hardly slept when you were awakened by explosions in the street. Why does this keep happening to you?
category: story
tags: main-story
---

Following the echoing booms that so rudely awakened you, you dashed bleary-eyed into the street and came upon a horrifying scene. In lingering smoke, several charred bodies lay strewn upon cobblestones. Farideh and Gnash rushed in to investigate, each in their own way...

Farideh administered first aid to an elderly women and Gnash fingered pockets for "evidence" as a groggy and hungover squad of the City Watch turned up. At the direction of Investigator Barnibus ('Barney') and Deputy Seth, the scene was cordoned off. Barney began questioning witnesses, including your group.

You told him what little you knew: several of the bodies appeared to be Zhentarim agents, and the victims included a gnome, three halflings, and several human bystanders who happened to be in the market. Barney could see this with his own eyes, so he dismissed you.

Around this time, you were approached by another bystander, Tashlyn Yafeer, who witnessed the blast first hand. The the ever-welcoming Dash invited her to join you in the inn and contribute to the party's vigilante investigation.

But first you needed rest. You retired to the Ghost and Dragon and took it in shifts. Those requiring less sleep continued the detective work. Andanna heard from a neighborhood witness that there was a 'limping man' who took something from the body of the dead gnome and headed towards the Bent Nail furniture shop. She dropped in there and met a fellow wood elf and carpenter. He confirmed that he had also seen a limping man leaving the scene uphill towards the Millionaire Mile. He said the man was in a hurry, had refused any assistance, and had not so much as looked in his direction as he passed.

Meanwhile, you revived the old woman from the scene. She told you that she heard footsteps, and that several people appeared to be chasing the gnome when the blast occured and everything went black.

At some point in the afternoon, Renaer dropped by to check on you and make sure everything was okay. You talked things through with him and he agreed that following the trail of the limping man to Millionaire Mile seemed like a good course. You hatched a plan to go up there under the pretense that you were only handing out invitations for the grand opening of the Ghost and Dragon. Meanwhile, you would hunt for clues of the limping man's trail.

Most of the party went with Renaer to have invitations prepared by his favorite calligrapher, but Gnash and Q'ea decided to continue the investigation in the local neighborhood. This took them to the doorstep of the Tiger's Eye, a private detective practice run by Vincent Trench. As they approached, a suspicious woman exited Trench's office and headed down the street. Gnash shadowed her and eventually confronted her, while Q'ea entered the Tiger's Eye and spoke with Trench.

Gnash learned that the woman suspected her husband of infidelity and had hired Vincent Trench to investigate. More to the point, he learned that there was some sort of machine on the rooftop that morning. It was that machine, the woman claimed, that cast the fireballs into the street below and killed all those people. She had witnessed this with her own eyes.

Q'ea, meanwhile, was having a hard time making progress with Trench ...there was a definite lack of chemistry. Gnash returned to the Tiger's Eye to find Q'ea lifting Trench off the floor by his collar. He implored her to be civil and Q'ea put him down. Trench was a bit huffy, but unshaken. For a few handfuls of gold, he shared the findings of his own investigation: the gnome was being chased by five Zhentarim assailants when the fireballs went off. The gnome, three assailants, and several bystanders were killed in the blasts that followed. One assailant took something from the gnome and limped off. Another assailant could not be accounted for.

The party reunited near Millionaire Mile and began handing out invitations door-to-door. All the while, Andanna's wolf sniffed about for clues. The City Watch was ever-present but not alarmed by the party and things went smoothly.

After questioning the very friendly Lady Huntlingdingen, your investigation lead you to the nearby Gralhund manor house. Andanna's wolf took point and confirmed that the limping man had been here. It seemed that he had entered the house through a small garden door in the rear.

And so it was that you decided to break an entering into a noble house--a _very_ serious crime. You waited until nightfall and after failing to pick the lock on the garden door, you began to stealthily scale the garden wall. Unfortunately, Farideh fell multiple times in the attempt. The clatter of her heavy armor attracted some of the City Watch. There were some tense moments, but everyone made it inside just before the watchmen rounded the corner.

The City Watch did not find you, but they did find the rope and grapple you had used to scale the wall... whoops.

Inside the garden and manor house, you encountered yet another violent scene (becoming a pattern for you). The Zhentarim and house guard of the Gralhund family were locked in combat. Judging by the body count on the floor, the battle had been in progress for some time. You discovered Lady Gralhund cowering in the bath with her two small children and so joined in against the Zhentarim in support of the Gralhunds.

At this moment, Tashlyn sprung her trap. Tashlyn, who had quietly tagged along with you all day, revealed herself as a Zhentarim agent and turned on you. She cut a swathe through Gralhund house guards with her greatsword and bore down upon you with staggering strength and agility. She was supported by another dangerous Zhentarim boss, Urstul, who emerged from a neighboring room. It was a hard-fought skirmish, but Dash eventually managed to pin Tashlyn to the wall, while the others knocked her out.

Shortly after that, Urstul fell too, and all was quiet... except for the distant screech of the Griffin Cavalry overhead and the tell-tale sound of many boots approaching.

Oh, shit. The City Watch was coming.

So you ran out of the house through the front door and onto the street. But in your hurry, you failed to think things through. You burst through the front door, straight into a sizable contingent of watchmen. You found yourselves surrounded and caught, red-handed. No escape. You surrendered and were escorted home.

***

You now find yourselves under heavy suspicion and a form of house arrest. Watchmen are stationed all around the tavern and up the street, but at least you havne't officially been arrested... Yet.

Renaer chides you for the break-in, but he says he knows you are... mostly innocent. At least, he doesn't doubt you had good intentions. He's on your side and will keep his ears open and see what strings he can pull to prevent serious legal action. In the meantime, he has instructed you to focus on managing the tavern and demonstrating to the Watch that you are capable of staying out of trouble and being good, upstanding citizens.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 4][chapter-4] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 6 &rarr;][chapter-6]

## Rewards

**2500 XP** - Level Up!! Everyone should now have 14,000 total experience points, which brings you to Level 6. This reward is for successfully tracking the 'limping man' (Urstul) to Gralhund Manor and defeating him, Tashlyn, and the other Zhentarim agents.

**House Arrest (Lose 10 Downtime Days)** - You realize it's probably best that you don't go out much, lest you draw more attention to yourselves. Additionally, any accrued downtime days you spend before the next session will be restricted. They should probably be spent in Waterdeep on non-suspicous activities. You may of course attempt other actions, but at your own risk.

**Gain 1 Infamy with all Factions** - In our story, "Infamy" will be the complement of "Renown." All factions in Waterdeep have now noticed you and heard that you were caught breaking into a noble household. Lawful and good people and factions may look down on this behavior and mistrust you. Chaotic and evil factions may regard the crime with some respect, though they may also perceive you as a threat. The main thing is that you are now more likely to be recognized and pre-judged by a broader range of Waterdeep's power brokers.

As for the Harpers, your relationship is slightly tarnished, but they still trust you, and they understand that abiding by the law is not always "right."

Note that Infamy is not an official DND rule.

### Ghost and Dragon Maintenance and Performance

Business is going pretty well, but the past two weeks have been slow.

I rolled for two ten-day weeks:

```
1st Tenday:    0 GP
2nd Tenday:  -50 GP
```

So in total, the Ghost and Dragon **lost 50 GP** over these two weeks, so we'll divide that 6 ways and say you lost 8 GP each (this is inclusive of maintenance costs).

Oh, well. It happens!

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 4][chapter-4] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 6 &rarr;][chapter-6]

[chapter-4]: {% post_url story/2019-03-09-chapter-4 %}
[chapter-6]: {% post_url story/2019-04-21-chapter-6 %}