---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 7 - Is That a 💩!?"
date: 2019-05-11
description: Farideh squares off against the Mind Flayer, but without any exit in sight, how will you get out?
category: story
tags: main-story
---

Lochan stepped forward now, eyes downcast in determination. Artur placed a hand on his shoulder, "No, my friend... It will kill you."

Lochan stood fast, head still bowed, "Then I will die doing my duty. It has to be me. I have trained for this. I stand a better chance than anyone." He slipped away from Artur and made his way towards the center of the chamber.

But Farideh, too, had set her mind on challenging the Flayer. She shadowed Lochan a few steps, offering to take his place, but Lochan could not be swayed with words, so she tackled him to the ground.

Lochan resisted, but soon you were _all_ on top of him. Step by step, you dragged him back towards the periphery, restraining him while Farideh strode forward and prepared to face the Illithid alone.

The ensuing fight was... miraculous. The Flayer bent all of its cunning and supernatural power against you. Cowardly and soft, it flew up beyond Farideh's reach and lashed out in psychic blasts. Some of you were floored by these assaults from as much as 60 feet away... but not Farideh. Time and again, the Flayer attempted to dominate her mind, but she resisted and pressed forward, while the Flayer fled.

After nearly a minute of cat-and-mouse games, the bloodied Flayer finally managed to find a foothold in Farideh's mind. She felt as though dark, psychic threads were curling about her brainstem. He commanded her to kneel, to grovel before him. Stunned, Farideh felt her body comply against her own will. She lowered her shield. Her sword began to slip from her fingers. The Flayer began to float toward her, its gaze deadly cold and empty. Its tentacles flared as it prepared to latch on to Farideh and devour her very intellect.

Alarmed at this turn, Dash called out to Farideh from the sidelines in encouragement. His words ⁠— as ever imbued with an inexplicable magic ⁠— stirred her from the thrall. She felt the psychic threads in her head snap and recoil somewhat, just enough so that she regained grip of her sword. She raised up her shield and then one knee. She pushed herself up from the ground, twisting at the hips as she did so. She arced her sword broadly above her head, bringing down the devastating and decisive blow.

But in the instant before the sword would strike, the Mind Flayer vanished into thin air. A white orb droped in its place and rolled stiffly away across the cold stone floor. Farideh's sword whipped through empty space, and she cast about for a moment, confused. The mindless thralls of the Flayer went stiff and hit the floor. Then all was silent. Farideh had defeated the Mind Flayer!

For now...

"Incredible," breathed Lochan, "but I fear that was the easy part." All eyes went to him. He explained that although he had managed to trace the portal to this place, there was no way of knowing where, or more importantly _when_, you were now located in space and time. He retrieved the white orb left behind by the Flayer and began to examine it. "Furthermore," he continued, "there are no signs of an exit. Not even so much as a draught of air..."

As Lochan talked, you tended to your wounds and to the two young lovers and erstwhile hostages, Ranald and Esmerelda. They embraced and wept in gratitude.

You searched the chamber and determined that there would be no conventional exit, but that perhaps you could figure out a way to teleport as the Mind Flayer did. You noticed that the white orb fit into a pattern inscribed on the floor... perhaps there were more such orbs?

You found two hallways branching away from the main chamber. The party split up. Dash and Gnash headed down into one wing, and the rest to the other.

There was indeed no way out. You located at least a dozen more prisoners and resolved to save them, if you could. You located an armoury and retrieved several magical items. In each wing, you recovered more colored orbs, while in the Illithid's chambers, Dash and Gnash found a note that appeared to be the key to using the portal.

Everyone reconvended in the main chamber, loot and refugees in tow.

"Is that a poop?" said Dash crudely, pointing to one of the glyphs. The rest of the party nodded reluctant agreement, it did appear so. But what could it mean? The page also contained a picture of a drop of water and what appeared to be a tree, alongside configurations of colored dots. These, you determined, must represent the colored orbs.

You began to try different combinations of orbs around the inscription on the floor of the main chamber. Each combination did indeed open a portal in the floor, but to where? To when? There were no discernable differences between the portals. You began to send things through the portals, testing them. One of you even knelt down and stuck your head through, but could not see anything of use.

Growing impatient, I believe it was Dab who finally declared that she would simply take the plunge and jump into the next portal to appear. And so she did, giving the rest of the party and all of the rescued prisoners no choice but to follow suit.

Traversing the portal felt like sliding in an endless spiral. It was dizzying, but not uncomfortable, as you fell, a pinhole of light appeared beneath your feet, spinning and growing brighter like the end of a tunnel. You recalled that the orb configuration for this particular portal corresponded to the image of a tree. As the end of the tunnel drew near, it was readily apparent that "tree" meant "forest."

You fell with surprising gentleness past the forest canopy and settled in the underbrush and bracken of the High Forest. Andanna recognized the lay of this land immediately. After gathering yourselves, you set off right away towards Waterdeep. Andanna assured you that she knew the way.

And so she did! But with all the rescued prisoners your group was very large. In the deep wilderness, you had too many mouths to feed and some were too sickly to handle the journey. You did your best, but not everyone made it.

Nearly two weeks later, you located the high road leading south to Waterdeep. You were home. As you approached the city gates, Lochan asked some locals about the date and year, desperate to know you had made it back to the correct time. Incredibly, even though it had been some weeks since you left, not a single day had passed in Waterdeep!

You kept a low profile as you entered the city, and no one hassled you. The rescued prisoners dispersed to find their homes and loved ones. Artur and Lochan went to report in to Force Grey. You returned to the Tavern and immediately slept, happy to have a warm bed again.

The next day was like any other day. You rose and opened the tavern. Dash brought in another of his charity cases to help out in the bar: a bear known as "Conan the Beerbearian." Renaer came to visit and listened transfixed by your story. Volo rose late, got drunk, and cracked wise. It was as if nothing had changed at all.

In the evening, Farideh could be heard in the corner, tossing back pints with customers and boasting how she had become Farideh - _The Flayer Slayer_.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 6][chapter-6] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 8 &rarr;][chapter-8]

### Rewards from May 11 Session

Just a quick reminder that I am tracking gold and downtime days in <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SaMyCgdg1k1Rkg-rYp5jd9HXty5zbsDlWiyTlsLRShE/edit#gid=1179554599" target="_blank">this sheet</a>.

I feel like I may have missed some things from the March/April sessions, especially any stuff that you picked up during the session. Let me know if you have any notes on what might be missing.

**2500 XP Each** - Everyone should now have 19,000 total experience points. You'll need 23,000 XP to reach level 7.

**10 Downtime Days** - You escaped the Mind Flayer's lair and suffered harried journey through the High Forest. You deserve a week off.

**Gain 2 Renown with Force Grey** - The Force Grey agents who accompanied you were astonished by how readily you handled the Mind Flayer. Their account of things will no doubt make waves inside the organization.

**Gain 333 Gold** - After a week, Yagra and Istrid--the Zhentarim agents you were hiding--left without a word. On the table of their room was a plain coin pouch full of jewels and coins worth 2000 Gold, which you split 6 ways. So you've both fulfilled your end of the bargain.

**Gain 50 Gold** - Business is poppin' at the Ghost and Dragon, although the tavern's china and glassware expenses have spiked recently. This couldn't have anything to do with the new bartenders? Could it? Nah.....

**Gain 50 Gold** - You've received a steady stream of thank you gifts and other tokens of appreciation from the families and loved ones of the dozen people that you rescued from the Mind Flayer's lair. It warms your heart and lines your pockets.

**Massive Barrel of "Thann Reserve" Pinot Noir** - As thanks for rescuing their son and his fiancee, the Thann's have gifted you a truly enormous barrel of wine. The barrel is almost twice as tall as any of you and reaches almost to the ceiling. You had to install a new utility entrance to the tavern with large double doors just so you could roll this thing into the main room. So now you have a year's supply of house wine, not to mention a billboard-sized advertisement for the Thann brand.


### Faction Reputations Summary

```
                Renown    Infamy    Overall Fame
Harpers           4         1            5
Xanath. Guild     0         5            5
Zhentarim         2         2            4
Force Grey        2         1            3
Waterdeep         2         1            3
Other Factions    0         1            1
```

**Gain a Catchy Nickname** - The common people of Waterdeep are hearing about your group, and are starting to refer to you all as _________________________. (choose wisely 🙂)

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 6][chapter-6] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 8 &rarr;][chapter-8]

[chapter-6]: {% post_url story/2019-04-21-chapter-6 %}
[chapter-8]: {% post_url story/2019-06-08-chapter-8 %}