---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 6 - Into the Lair of the Flayer"
date: 2019-04-21
description: You throw a grand Soft Opening party with lots of silks. But some kids get kidnapped, so of course you follow them to another dimension.
category: story
tags: main-story
---

You laid low after the debacle at Gralhund manor, literally minding your own business -- _The Ghost and Dragon_ -- and business was pretty good! News spread, and people are fascinated. You have become somewhat infamous heroes and the stories of your adventures are in the ears of many in Waterdeep.

Your grand "soft" opening was coming up, and as it happens, you picked a great time. It was the festival week of Trolltide, a holiday that celebrates Waterdeep's victory in the Troll Wars some 500 years ago. Children and adults alike scurry through the city wearing goblin and troll masks. The children go door to door, expecting candy, gold, and other treats. It's like fantasy Halloween in mid spring.

As you awakened one morning, you descended the stairs to a minor ruckus. A small, yellow goblin hobbled to and fro across the common room, taking and delivering orders from your patrons in delirious and tragically comical spirals. As you caught his eye, he greeted you with an enthusiastic cheer -- _Banana!_

Warding off your evident confusion, Dash introduced this creature as "Banana Swirl," the first charity case of _The Ghost and Dragon's_ philanthropy wing. There was some talk of the merits and ethics of bringing him aboard, and some were put off by the fact they weren't consulted in the hiring decision, but Dash cheerfully waved off your concerns saying (essentially), "Guys, guys, guys. We're doing a GOOD thing _and_ it's a GREAT deal."

While you were talking, two cloaked figures in troll masks sat down at the bar. Banana Swirl dutifully grabbed a couple mugs and stood before the taps, utterly baffled as to how he might both pull the lever and hold the mugs at the same time. After a few false starts, Lith finally gave him a ghostly hand and pulled the taps. Beer splashed all over the floor.

Renaer arrived then, and he hardly noticed Banana Swirl in his excitement to share his news...

>"Barney is looking into your case, and I've been trying to keep tabs on things. What I know is that he's been spending a lot of time up at the Gralhund manor house, but he's not letting anyone in or out. The Watch is being unusually tight-lipped about it. I did, however, manage to get a copy of the coroner's report on the bodies from the explosion...
>
>Though he was badly burned, the coroner managed to identify the Gnome as *Dalakhar*. I know him well. He's a loyal servant to my father and he's been spying on me for months... I tracked down some of Dalakhar's friends. Apparently, he was on a special mission to retrieve the _Stone of Golorr_ and was afraid that the Zhents and Xanths were close to catching him. When he heard about my kidnapping, he wanted to learn more about _you_, the people who saved me. My guess is that he was planning to pay you to deliver the stone to my father in Neverwinter."
>
>"In any case, I don't think I can run from my fate any longer. Whether I like it or not, it seems I am destined to be a pawn in this Grand Game. Perhaps I've sat on the sidelines long enough..."

You discussed the situation with Renaer, and decided the next step was to visit the Temple of Gond to investigate the automaton that reportedly cast the fireballs in the alleyway.

As you prepared to leave, the cloaked figures at the bar signaled to you and asked if you would speak with them in private. You took them to a study room upstairs, where they decloaked and introduced themselves as *Istrid* and *Yagra*, Zhentarim agents. You did not know Istrid, but you recognized Yagra immediately -- she was the orc woman from the bar fight that set this whole thing in motion!

Istrid and Yagra said they were seeking refuge from the City Watch. The Watch was cracking down on everyone with Zhentarim ties after the attack on Gralhund Manor, and they did not know where else to turn. Yagra remembered how you helped her out at the Yawning Portal, and they also heard you were the last people seen with their friend Tashlyn, so they decided to risk it and seek your help.

You struck a deal. In return for hiding the two of them for a tenday, Istrid (master of coin for the Zhentarim) would pay you a huge sum of 4000 GP. They also told you that although the Zhentarim sometimes operate at the edge of the law, they are not an inherently criminal organization -- not at all like Xanathar's guild, which is pure evil. ...Recently, however, a rift has emerged in the Zhent ranks and many have broken bad. They were sad to hear that Tashlyn got mixed up with *Urstul*, because he represents the leadership of the evil breakaway faction within the organization.

Just as you finalized your deal to harbor these fugitives from the Law, the Law arrived. Inspector Barnibus from the City Watch strode in and called for you. In a shrill voice and with dramatic formality, he announced the following:

>"We have conducted a _thorough_ investigation and have come to the conclusion that, _while you are not innocent_, given the circumstances it would be unjust to punish you for the crimes you have _very evidently committed_. Most egregiously: the breaking and entering of a noble household and bloodshed therein.
>
> Ahem.
>
>"Although the evidence of your trespasses is both _ample_ and _overwhelming_, the Lady Gralhund has assured us that you were not the instigators of violence and that without your intervention, things would have been far worse. She will therefor _not_ be pressing charges and she has urged us to deal with you delicately..."
>
>"Very well. A slap on the wrist this is, but I will impress upon you this grave warning: We. Are. Watching. This sort of reckless behavior cannot be tolerated in Waterdeep, and next time, you will not get off so lightly."

True to your word, you did not mention your Zhentarim friends upstairs, and Barnibus left without incident. You were relieved to finally be free of the multi-week investigation and of Barney's nagging presence.

So you went to the the Temple of Gond, where you met the high priestess Valetta and an automaton named Nim. Valetta gave you a *Nimblewright Detector* and promised a reward for tracking down any unlicensed automatons you might find. You also convinced the temple to supply some robo-bartenders for the soft opening and paid 10GP for a very boring tour of the Temple.

And then came the night of the (exceptionally) soft opening. Dash threw silks all over the place and wine and beer flowed like a river. You were very pleased to see an excellent turnout. Almost all of your noble guests came, most notably:

 - Volo, Renaer and Floon of course
 - Lady Yalah and Lord Orond Gralhund
 - Lady Ammalia and Lord Victoro Cassalanter
 - Gertrude & Juergen Huntlingdingen
 - Sylla and Ellis Ardabrent
 - Bonnie (the barmaid from the Yawning Portal)
 - Danilo and Arilyn Thann
 - Two older men in gray cloaks
 - Zardoz Zod and entourage, leader of a troupe of performers known as the Sea Maiden's Faire
 - The young, betrothed Esmerelda Ardabrent and Ranald Thann

You observed and learned the following:

 - As it was Trolltide, the Cassalanters brought their three young children dressed as adorable little goblins.
 - A young noble named Esvele told everyone about a mysterious figure known as The Black Viper who has been mugging nobles late at night
 - The Ardabrents complained loudly about the Drow in the harbor. They said that they suspect piracy and it is harming their shipping trade. Zardoz laughed at them.
 - Gnash noticed Zardoz was wearing a magical disguise, but he could not see through it.
 - Everyone is jealous of the Cassalanters' recent success and suspect foul play of some sort.
 - There's an abundant rumor that the Cassalanter children have been cursed by the demon Asmodeus. The Cassalanters are not cultists, but they must make sacrifices or risk losing their children.
 - Yalah Gralhund is intensely jealous of the Cassalanters

While the party was in full swing, Andanna noticed the young betrothed couple (Esmeralda and Ranald) stealing away down the cellar stairs. They were followed by a suspicious older dragonborn in a gray cloak. Andanna sensed danger and silently trailed behind them. From the cellar steps, she watched, astonished, as the dragonborn grabbed the pair of young lovers. He pushed forward, and Esmeralda let out a stifled cry as the very space around them folded inward and all three vanished into thin air.

Andanna quietly shared this disturbing news with you. After the party, you told the noble parents what happened. They were shocked and not of much help.

But another man in a gray cloak came forward and asked after his companion. He introduced himself as *Nieven* and the suspicious dragonborn as *Meloon*. He said they were undercover agents of Force Gray sent to the party to keep tabs on noble happenings. He said that Meloon had been acting strange lately, and this unfortunately confirmed his worst fear... Meloon was likely charmed -- or worse, wholly possessed -- by the Mind Flayer. The very same one you encountered before, and which Force Grey was also hunting.

Nieven acted quickly and called for backup from Force Gray. Three more agents arrived: two seasoned fighters, *Reinrug* and *Artur* and an elf wizard named *Lochan*. Lochan investigated the spot where the trio had vanished and managed to trace the portal. He unzipped the space in the corner of the cellar, and the portal reopened. You all piled in.

You found yourself in a pitch black cave beside a faintly glowing pool. You fought your way through a brood of Intellect Devourers that spawned from the pool. And Reinrug met his end. You flew up a bruising shaft of inverting gravity, slew a den of fierce Quaggoths, and encountered brutal traps. Finally, you reached the inner sanctum.

And there in a massive domed chamber upon an ancient dais stood the Mind Flayer, straight and menacing as a pillar of dark purple flame. Its cold, wide octopus eyes bore down upon you. Beside him stood two silent duergar dwarves. Gray-skinned thralls with dull eyes and lifeless faces. They held knives at the throats of the young nobles bound, kneeling, and softly sniffling before them.

A foul voice slid into the creases of your brain and said:

>I see you have passed my little gauntlet mostly intact.... I am impressssed.... Any one of you would make a strong servant.... your minds smelll delicious....
>
>Theeessse are nothing to mee.... Ussselessss....

It indicated the young nobles.

>I will trade the two for any one of you.... Become my thrall and theeessse go freee.... Challenge me in single combat and these go free.... You may resisst, hmmmmm.... I like nothing better than a liiive meeaall...

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 5][chapter-5] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 7 &rarr;][chapter-7]


## Rewards

**2500 XP Each** - Everyone should now have 16,500 total experience points.

**333 GP Each** - You struck a deal to hide Istrid and Yagra from the City Watch for a tenday for 4000GP, and Istrid paid you half of this up front! You split it six ways.

**Nimblewright Detector** - When you depress the lever on this odd device, it will buzz and whirr if an automaton of the Temple of Gond is near.

**Ghost and Dragon Maintenance and Performance** - During the week or so that the last session played out -- not to mention the fabulous "soft" opening, your tavern earned **150 GP**!!

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 5][chapter-5] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 7 &rarr;][chapter-7]

[chapter-5]: {% post_url story/2019-03-24-chapter-5 %}
[chapter-7]: {% post_url story/2019-05-11-chapter-7 %}
