---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 1 - Finding Floon"
date: 2019-01-12
description: The story begins with a bar fight at the Yawning Portal, and you are soon caught up in a kidnapping and gang warfare.
category: story
tags: main-story
---

At the [Yawning Portal Inn][yawning-portal] in the city of Waterdeep, you witnessed one small skirmish in the all-out gang war between the ['Xanths'][xanathar-guild] and the ['Zhents'][zhentarim]. You broke up the fight and also aided the inn's proprieter, [Durnan][durnan], in casting a massive troll back down the portal—a common event in his weird concept bar, apparently. You got a curt thanks and a free round of ale for your trouble.

Impressed by your handling of the troll, [Volothamp Geddarm][volo-geddarm], flamboyant author of _Volo's Guide to Monsters_, approached you for help and offered generous compensation. You agreed to investigate the disappearance of his "dear friend" [Floon][floon], a young man who has been missing for a few days amidst all the violence in the Dock Ward. You managed to track Floon to a Zhent warehouse near the docks. You soon discovered evidence of yet another deadly gang fight and that the place was actually overrun by agents of [Xanathar][the-xanathar]. They heard you coming and attempted to ambush you, but you managed to get the drop on them instead.

Now Captain Staget and some constables of the City Watch arrive, conveniently a little too late to be of much help. They quickly assess the situation, and Captain Staget seems very pleased by the sight of so many pacified gang members. As they take the surviving Xanth agents into custody, one constable calls out, "Found something!" and yanks a young nobleman from a supply closet. Captain Staget straightens his back and commands his report, "Unhand him at once!"

The young man announces that he is [Renaer Neverember][renaer-neverember], son of [Dagult Neverember][dagult-neverember]. You know that Dagult is the former ["Open Lord"][open-lord] of Waterdeep and that up until he was ousted a few years ago, he was the most powerful person in the city. You have no idea how someone so prominent ended up in a place like this, but he seems grateful and amenable to your questions...

[Next: Chapter 2 &rarr;][chapter-2]

## Rewards

**5 Advancement Checkpoints (abbrev: ACP)** - That's one for every hour (rounded down), while you were advancing the objectives of the official campaign.

**5 Treasure Checkpoints (abbrev: TCP)** - Same rules as ACP.

**12.5 Downtime Days** - Five days for every two ACP.

**1.25 Renown** - That's one for every four ACP

**Unlocked the Paper Bird magic item for purchase (cost: 8 Treasure Checkpoints)** - It's a paper emu-mail! Here's the description: After you write a message of fifty words or fewer on this magic sheet of parchment and speak a creature's name, the parchment magically folds into a Tiny paper bird and flies to the recipient whose name you uttered....

[Next: Chapter 2 &rarr;][chapter-2]

[chapter-2]: {% post_url story/2019-01-26-chapter-2 %}
[floon]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-floon %}
[durnan]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-durnan %}
[volo-geddarm]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-volo-geddarm %}
[renaer-neverember]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-renaer-neverember %}
[open-lord]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-open-lord %}
[dagult-neverember]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-dagult-neverember %}
[the-xanathar]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-the-xanathar %}
[yawning-portal]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-yawning-portal %}
[xanathar-guild]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-xanathar-guild %}
[zhentarim]: {% post_url wiki/2019-01-12-zhentarim %}
