---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 10 - Aw Hell No"
date: 2019-09-04
description: Urstul finds you, and you come face to face with hell itself.
category: story
tags: main-story
---

Andanna's father was gone and you all stood shocked in silence.

From the chamber entrance you heard -- someone clapping? And then a familiar voice, "What a touching reunion."

You turned, and Urstul slunk from the shadows. He wiped a mock tear from his eye. With him were several robed figures. He approached a table and lifted a glass beaker.

"'course he is probly ain't yer real dad. Dem's tricky, demons... Can't be trusted." Urstul bared his teeth cruelly as he rolled the beaker in one hand, allowing it to fall to the stone below and shatter.

You barely had a chance to respond -- to understand how and why he had followed you here -- when another familiar voice rang out: "Now!"

The hooded figures drew weapons. In a blink, they had Urstul surrounded. He cast about wildly, shocked and confused at this betrayal. The woman who shouted, Istrid Horn, appeared. A long thin rapier drawn and leveled at Urstul's throat.

"Thank you, my friends," Istrid said to you, "for setting the perfect trap."

Her eyes were locked to Urstul. His shock turned first to anger, and then defeat. He dropped his sword as two Zhentarim restrained him. He glowered at Istrid and said, "Go on then. I won't beg."

Istrid drew back her blade to strike, but you stopped her. For some time you debated what to do with Urstul, and what he deserved. He was completely, utterly beaten. He stared at the floor, apparently already dead inside.

You ultimately decided he deserved death, but not immediately. Instead, you would use him as a guinea pig to test the Midnight Tears poison ...potentially a very cruel fate! Urstul was restrained without protest or resistance, and some Zhentarim agents were appointed to watch over him until midnight when the potion should do its work.

You invited Istrid to join you on your present mission to infiltrate the Cassalanter household and stop their plot to deliver 99 souls to Asmodeus. Istrid judged the situation too dangerous for herself, but committed Yagra and another agent to your cause. They accompanied you as you made your way up another spiral staircase.

After ascending, you found yourself in the Cassalanter family crypt. At the end of a long hall of graves hung an incredibly large portrait of a handsome young devil, who you judged to be Asmodeus himself. Luckily for you, your earlier encounters below had not triggered any sort of alarm. You could hear a loud, measured voice echoing through the halls ahead.

You crept through the crypts, resisting the urge to disturb the graves. Well, everyone resisted except Dash. He made for a burial chamber, but Andanna's wolf averted disaster, dragging him ass-first away from the foreboding sarcophagi.

Q'ea lead the way towards the echoing voice. Silently and in shadow, she rounded a corner, and ahead she saw a large open chamber teeming with cultists. Speaking at the head of the group was Victoro Cassalanter. She caught just the end of his address:

> ...to unlock the Vault of Dragons and retrieve the gold. Here, my instructions. Keep them close and do as I bid. Now, go!

Victoro handed a sealed scroll to each cultist in turn, and they began exiting the chamber.

The group agreed it was time to act. To catch Victoro and end this once and for all. Dash had a bright idea. He summoned the most incredible illusion that seemed to fill half the chamber with infernal fire and smoke. From within this pillar, he conjured the image of Asmodeus -- huge and terrifying. Many of the cultists gasped, initially convinced of the hellish presence of Asmodeus himself, but Victoro and his demonic valet were unphased. They saw through the illusion began issuing commands.

Battle ensued. You made quick work of the cultists as they charged at you, and it seemed that you would easily catch up to Victoro. But suddenly and with a booming _crack!_, a huge wooden table appeared from thin air. It fell to the floor, crushing several cultists beneath its treetrunk legs. All around the table sat imps and demons of various shapes and sizes. At its head sat a huge horned devil.

The devil spoke: "Aw, heellll no. You did not just disrupt my revelries." He extended a long pointed claw towards you and his minions rose from their places at the table and descended upon you.

You know a boss fight when you see one. You attacked back, dispatching small hordes of imps and lesser devils as you fought your way across the chamber. When you reached the horned devil, he lazily waved off your attacks. It seemed like no blow could land or pierce his tough skin, but slowly, you began to wear him down... and infuriate him.

Enraged, he leapt up from his thronelike chair, attacking in a fury with tail, spear, and claw, but you were too many for him. You surrounded and battered him. His leathery wings and armour-like flesh began to tear. His skillful defense weakened. Finally, he decided he had enough. With a snap, he disappeared and returned whence he had come.

With the main threat gone, you looked about and recovered one of the scrolls that Victoro had handed to a cultist. Apprehensively, you began to open it....

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 9][chapter-9]

## Rewards

*2500 XP Each* - Defeating this Horned Devil was a big deal! Everyone should now have 26,500 total experience points. At 34,000 XP, you will reach level 8!

*10 Downtime Days*

*Lose 100 Gold* - The Ghost and Dragon lost some money...

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 9][chapter-9]

[chapter-9]: {% post_url story/2019-07-28-chapter-9 %}