---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 8 - Run, Run, Run"
date: 2019-06-08
description: You track down the missing Nimblewright automaton, which sets off a chase after the Stone of Golorr!
category: story
tags: main-story
---

Many days passed uneventfully. As the stress of your last adventure began to fade, your thoughts returned to the missing treasure and to the Nimblewright who you believed to have possession of the all-important _Stone of Golorr_. As far as you knew, the contraption was still at large and still had the stone.

So you resolved to investigate a few things. First, you learned from *Istrid* (one of the Zhentarim agents you sheltered from the law) that *Urstul Floxin* (a traitor to the Zhentarim that you confronted and defeated at Gralhund manor), had been apprehended. He was being held at the courthouse. You decided to pay him a visit to see what you could learn.

You found *Urstul* sulking in the last cell of the courthouse holding pens. He entertained a couple of your questions, but made it clear that he could not easily be pumped for information. Rather, he promised to escape the prison, reconsolidate his power, then hunt and kill you. Real pleasant guy, that Urstul.

Recognizing the limits of direct questioning, Dab decided to read Urstul's mind and see what his thoughts might reveal. In them, she heard a new name: *Manshoon*. She correctly deduced that this might be Urstul's boss... Could this be yet another player in the search for Dagult's hidden treasure?

Dab demanded information about *Manshoon* from *Urstul*.

"Wh-where did you hear that name?" *Urstul* stammered, his face gone white. He swore and spat once more that he'd be free soon, that he'd hunt you down. He refused to answer any further questions. Dead end.

So you resumed the search for the Nimblewright. You headed down to the Dock Ward with the Nimblewright detector obtained in the Temple of Gond ...and _bingo_! No more than a couple hours later, the whirligig began to go off, and you followed the strengthening signal from block to block.

You found the Nimblewright huddled in a back alley, covering itself with a thin blanket. It leapt up as you approached and took on a fighting stance. You attempted to reason with it, but it resisted all attempts at communication and physical coercion. In the end, Dash tried disabling it with a Thunderwave, but only ended up thrashing it against a wall. Its clockwork exploded in a shower of springs and gears. Now it was no longer whole nor animate. Dab gathered up the pieces, in case it might be made again.

Furthermore, there were no signs of the Stone of Golorr. But there on the ground, tucked between two overlapping metal panels was a small leaf of paper, and on that paper you found a hand-drawn map and the signature of Lady Gralhund.

The map lead you to the Cassalanter crypt in Waterdeep's massive cemetary, the City of the Dead. In your haste, you may have knocked out a few guards along the way. Not to worry, though, they probably won't remember you. Hopefully not. Maybe not.

Once in the crypt, you found ample evidence of recent activity. Numerous fresh footprints cut paths in the ancient dust of the tomb. You ventured further on and turned a corner. There you found several several maimed human bodies littering the floor. Only one was alive and barely breathing. She was dressed in robes bearing the symbol of the demon prince Asmodeus. You revived her and she introduced herself as *Vaelle*. She told you that she and her companions were members of the Cult of Asmodeus. They had come here to leave offerings, which they often did. Among the recent offerings was a small leather pouch she knew contained an item of great importance.

And then, *Vaelle* said, they were attacked by imps. They cut down her companions with their vicious claws. She was herself gravely wounded and fell unconscious. She could not understand why these fellow servants of Asmodeus would attack _her_. In her short time there, she had always been loyal and prompt in her duties.

You offered to assist *Vaelle*, and she gave each of you a set of potions. She pointed out the potion of true sight, which she said you would need to see the invisible imps, in case they returned.

No sooner did she say that, but another cohort of imps came screaming around the corner. They targeted *Vaelle*, apparantly eager to finish the job. You made quick work of them, and Vaelle, now quite shaken resolved to take you to see her mentor, *Seffia*, to find out what was really going on.

*Vaelle* lead you to building near the edge of town: a windmill that had been converted into a townhome. It once stood, perhaps, in the middle of a field, but now the city had grown up around it.

Vaelle tried the door with no luck, so she called up to an open window and *Seffia* appeared shortly. "You! You're supposed to be dead." Seffia said flatly.

"But... I don't understand. Why are you doing this?" *Vaelle* said tearfully.

"Oh, you stupid, stupid girl..." spat *Seffia*, shaking her head and retreating from the window frame. Another gang of imps swooped into view over the rooftops and began to circle and shriek in the sky. One alit upon the window sill, and you watched as *Seffia* handed over a small leather pouch -- the Stone! Then the imps disappeared once more over the rooftops.

*Vaelle* cried out and dashed away, but you couldn't let those imps escape with the stone! You left her, climbed to the rooftops, and began to give chase. The imps had gained some ground, but were flying low over the rooftops. You were sure you could catch them, but every time you came close to recovering the stone, another devil dove and recovered it.

Suddenly, you were set upon by animated stone Gargoyles. This further foiled your progress.

Finally, Andanna struck an imp with a far-ranged bowshot. The imp and pouch fell out of sight down into an alleyway, where another Gargoyle recovred it. Q'ea with her superior speed caught up to it first. Dash, Gnash, and Dab (who had taken a flying potion) were close behind. From the rooftops, Andanna tripped up their quarry with a bed of magical brambles, and Dab stepped in, thwacking it mightily with her hammer.

The stone creature shattered and the pouch flew from its hands. It tumbled dully across the cobblestones. It came to rest at the feet of an elegantly dressed man with a dark curling beard and moustache.

The man carefully bent down and retrieved the pouch. He examined it briefly and weighed it in his palm. After a moment, he looked up at you, staring at him from the alleyway. Around him stood no less than 10 armed guards, and behind them was a horsedrawn carriage.

Smugly, he began to say: "Get them..."

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 7][chapter-7] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 9 &rarr;][chapter-9]

## Rewards

**2500 XP Each** - Everyone should now have 21,500 total experience points. At 23,000 XP, you will reach level 7!

**10 Downtime Days**

**Gain 75 Gold** - Income from the Ghost and Dragon!

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 7][chapter-7] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 9 &rarr;][chapter-9]

[chapter-7]: {% post_url story/2019-05-11-chapter-7 %}
[chapter-9]: {% post_url story/2019-07-28-chapter-7 %}
