---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 4 - Breaking in the Bar"
date: 2019-03-09
description: You have acquired a decrepit manor house and tavern from Volo... now what will you do with it? Then there's a secret meeting with Mirt and an ambush!
category: story
tags: main-story
---

You met up with Volo at the magistrate's office and he officially signed over the deed to Troll Skull manor to you. Volo, thus unburdened of his debt, really had a spring in his step. He couldn't wait to show you to the manor house and introduce you to the invisible tenant he has been studying: a poltergeist named Lith.

As you piled out of your carriage in front of the manor house, the sorry state of the building sank in. The door literally fell off its hinges as you entered, and it was abundantly clear that if _This Old House_ was going to have any _Curb Appeal_, it was gonna need an _Extreme Home Makeover_.

So you explored the house and claimed your rooms. You met Lith first-hand, and even located his remains in a small locked room amongst old wine bottles and tankards. Dash won him over by offering wine and restoring an old troll skull to its mounting above the front door.

By and by, a halfling named Broxley Fairkettle appeared in the open doorway. As a representative of the Inkeeper's Guild, he informed you of your legal and fiduciary obligations. Further, he outlined important considerations for new business owners in Waterdeep in light of its bizarre and complex guild bureaucracy. He also made it clear that restoring the building would _more than double_ your investment. This hardly phased you, though, and with the help of a new loan from Mirt, you went all in.

Above all, Broxley helped make arrangements to have the inn improved according to your specifications. The place soon erupted in an orderly chaos as guild artisans, builders, vintners, carpenters, and butchers descended to restore and supply your new establishment inside and out. You made sure that proper fees were paid and palms were adequately greased.

With all of this taken care of, you had some free time. Gnash revealed that he had privately gone to meet with Mirt, and although Mirt wouldn't budge on your debt, he extended an intriguing invitation. He asked Gnash to meet him during intermission at the premier of an upcoming opera--_The Fall of Tiamat_. He gave Gnash eight tickets and told him to bring his friends.

Some days later, as you were getting dandied up on the afternoon of the premier, a strange talking cat wandered into the tavern with a message from Vajra Safahr--the Blackstaff of Waterdeep. She asked that you meet with her, but was vague on the details. You weighed your options and ultimately decided to attend the opera first to meet with Mirt and see Vajra later.

The Opera's opening night was indeed a _Who's Who_ of Waterdeep. Volo pointed out some of the more prominent noble families: the Cassalanters and the Gralhunds. You decided to take this opportunity to promote your new tavern among the monied set. You walked straight up to Victoro Cassalanter, the wealthiest and most intimidating body in the room... and you may well have impressed him! Various other nobles also expressed interest in attending a grand opening party at the _Ghost & Dragon_ (for so you have named your new inn).

After sitting through a painful two-hour First Act of minimalist stage settings, shrill arias sung in Giant, and harsh _avante garde_ magical pyrotechnics, it was time to meet Mirt.

Mirt was casual as ever, but this meeting was definitely more about business than pleasure. He said he was impressed by Floon's rescue and Renaer's recommendation. He hoped that you might agree to assist his organization, the Harpers. He explained that, in brief, the Harpers fight for the Greater Good, though their notion of "good" is not necessarily subject to any particular religious or legal framework.

Mirt is especially concerned about the balance of power in Waterdeep. He is worried by the accelerating tension between the Zhents and the Xanths, which signals they may be close to locating the treasure. If it falls into the wrong hands, it could mean serious trouble for the otherwise peaceful and orderly city of Waterdeep.

For now, you have agreed to be "friends of the Harpers." Mirt gave you each an enchanted medallion engraved with the symbol of the Harpers (a crescent moon and harp), which he says can be used to broadcast and receive distress signals to and from other Harpers.

After leaving Mirt, you abandoned the Opera and went straight to Blackstaff tower. The guards told you it was too late to see Vajra at that time, so you returned first thing in the morning. Vajra was cold and demanding. She scolded you for not immediately responding to her summons. She practically commanded you to report what you knew about the Mind Flayer you encountered in the Xanathar Guild hideout. You asked questions of your own, but Vajra would not reveal much. She did tell you that she leads Force Grey, the Waterdeep equivalent of the CIA. She also let slip some hints at animosity between herself and Laerel Silverhand, the current Open Lord of Waterdeep. Vajra flat out said she is frustrated because Laerel will not allow her to deploy Force Grey to investigate the Mind Flayer, even though it presents a significant security concern. She asked you to keep your eyes and ears open.

Vajra dismissed you. On your way back to the tavern, a squad of City Watchmen confronted you, demanding to know your business with the Blackstaff in the name of Laerel Silverhand. You easily defused the situation by offering the guardsmen some free drinks. A few hours later, all was forgotten, and they wandered drunkenly off into the night.

As you drifted off to sleep, you were suddenly awakened by the troll skull above the front door shrieking _intruders!_, _intruders!_. You snuck downstairs to see a small group of wererats rummaging around in the main room. You barred the doors, but some of them managed to escape through the windows, agape, unlocked, and in some cases completely missing due to the ongoing construction. Pursuing the wererats led you straight into a trap where you were showered in crossbow bolts. Even so, you handled the situation. Within a minute you subdued a majority of your ambushers and drove off the others...

You failed to capture any of your assailants, and as the last of the wererats ducked away into hidden alleys and the darkness of the night, you searched the bodies of their fallen comrades for some evidence of a motive. You uncovered documents linking this gang to Xanathar. Of course.

Furthermore, as the life passed from their bodies, the wererats reverted to their halfling selves. Among them, Gnash recognized a familiar face... it was Tyrell "the Dog"! A spy he had hired in Dock Ward to do some snooping. The halfling dog was a dirty rat after all.

As the fight broke up, your neighbors emerged to see what was the matter. You addressed their concerns and explained everything. They were eager to believe you and ultimately grateful for your heroism, especially in the mystifying absence of the City Watch.

So you returned to your beds, content that the day was saved. But you had hardly managed your fortieth wink, when you were shaken awake again, this time by the shockwave of several massive explosions down the street...

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 3][chapter-3] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 5 &rarr;][chapter-5]

## Rewards

**2500 XP** - This should bring everyone to 11,500 total experience points, which is 2500 XP away from level 6! This is for various accomplishments: befriending Lith, repairing the tavern, meeting Mirt, meeting Vajra, and defeating the wererat gang.

**50 Gold Pieces Each** - Recovered from the bodies of the wererat gang and donated by concerned and grateful neighbors.

**2 Renown with the Harpers** - At Mirt's invitation, you are now officially "Friends of the Harpers." Mirt has asked that you share any information you gather about the missing treasure with him along with any Zhent or Xanth activity.

**Harper Medallion** - This enchanted medallion can be used to send or receive a distress signal to/from others with the same medallions. To send a distress signal, simply clasp it in hand and ask for help (you can say "Harpers, Help!" or even just "Help!" ...the medallion gets it). It also works as a receiver for distress calls from other medallions. When receiving a distress signal, the medallion will vibrate. The vibration will increase in intensity as you approach the source of the distress signal.

**10 Downtime Days** - A little less this time, just because I have so many to catch up on right now. We'll also say that you're investing time in the renovation of the tavern.

**Ghost and Dragon** - We'll do this math in the #tavern channel, but basic running of the biz will work like this: there will be a weekly maintenance cost, and for every week I'll roll to see how the business performs. Your results can be improved by investing downtime days or money into running the establishment. Sometimes special events may occur and of course you can get creative by throwing events of your own (like the exclusive party you are planning for the nobles).

## Ghost & Dragon Maintenance

Mirt has proven to be a very flexible lender. Without question, he consolidated your mortgage and home improvement loans into a single six-year loan at 8% interest. It's kind of steep, but you won't find better in Waterdeep. Besides, the economy is booming because adventurers like you keep digging hoards of gold out of dungeons and spending it locally...

<a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QUCgqVKntyPWoIuGlnFdDNJqkaZuoXntpSjJ3cbsQ7w/edit#gid=0" target="_blank">Here's a basic amortization schedule for the debt</a>. The monthly payment comes out to 122 GP.



Given that, here's a breakdown of your fixed monthly and weekly business costs:

```
                                   Monthly     Weekly
Loan Payment                           122       30.5
Inkeeper's Guild Dues                   20        5.0
Vintners' & Brewers' Guild Dues          8        2.0
Butcher's Guild Dues (and bribes)       10        2.5
Waterdeep Taxes                         30        7.5
------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  190       47.5
```

Beyond that, you will have a variable cost of provisions, which I'll take into account when we roll to see how the business is doing.

### Finding Employees

Durnan appreciates your invitation to help with bartending. He's happy to give you some pointers and come by to see the place, but the Yawning Portal is his baby and he's not looking for new opportunities. He says he does have some trusted former employees who might be a good fit.

He also wants to remind you that Bonnie is not his wife, just an employee. He's a self-appointed Bachelor for Life ...an unnaturally long life at that, for so it is rumored that Durnan is somehow hundreds of years old.

[&larr; Prev: Chapter 3][chapter-3] &nbsp; [Next: Chapter 5 &rarr;][chapter-5]

[chapter-3]: {% post_url story/2019-02-10-chapter-3 %}
[chapter-5]: {% post_url story/2019-03-24-chapter-5 %}